---
layout: post
title: "Structured vs Unstructured"
date: 2025-10-30 09:00:00 +0000
---

Picture this:
A small group of people has an objective and hence some work to do. As soon as the task become more complex that a 3-hour-job, some kind of tracking tool helps with organization on the personal or group level, because it avoids having to keep stuff in you rhead that you don't really need for the next 1-hour task. So the decision is made to adopt a new tracking tool. But using such new tool feels awkward and, written plainly, it limits you.

Trying to give something a structure is hard. And i mean really hard. And that's because peolpe work very differently than institutions. People have high adaptability capabilities, while institutions are like 5 year olds. If someone does not explain to them very very well, they will not understand. Not only this, but the "explainers" need to understand the tasks almost as weel as the actual people carrying them out, to have a chance to do it right.
Not getting it right means forcing people to adapt, usually to the detriment of the institution's performance as a whole.

The possibility of improvement for a task lies in the difference between the perfectly structured way of performing the task that's written on paper and the probably less efficient but original way that someone might perform a task if given no directions.
Keep this delta too high and you end up with a mess where noone knows what they are doing and why, keep it too low and you end up with perfectly predictable results, but that have no possibility to improve.
Keep the delta at just the right amount and you end up allowing space for creativity and performance improvement.

Take for example Bell labs. They worked very well, engineering made many of the devices that revolutionized technology in the 70s-90s era. And their recipe was simple: Hire great and ambitious people, put them at work in the same place and give them a degree of freedon to work on what they wanted.
